---
layout: default
title: CAS - Release Notes
category: Planning
---

{% include variables.html %}

# 7.3.0-RC3 Release Notes

We strongly recommend that you take advantage of the release candidates as they come out. Waiting for a `GA` release is only going to set
you up for unpleasant surprises. A `GA` is [a tag and nothing more](https://apereo.github.io/2017/03/08/the-myth-of-ga-rel/). Note
that CAS releases are *strictly* time-based releases; they are not scheduled or based on specific benchmarks,
statistics or completion of features. To gain confidence in a particular
release, it is strongly recommended that you start early by experimenting with release candidates and/or follow-up snapshots.

## Apereo Membership

If you benefit from Apereo CAS as free and open-source software, we invite you
to [join the Apereo Foundation](https://www.apereo.org/content/apereo-membership)
and financially support the project at a capacity that best suits your deployment. Note that all development activity is performed
*almost exclusively* on a voluntary basis with no expectations, commitments or strings attached. Having the financial means to better
sustain engineering activities will allow the developer community to allocate *dedicated and committed* time for long-term support,
maintenance and release planning, especially when it comes to addressing critical and security issues in a timely manner.

## Get Involved

- Start your CAS deployment today. Try out features and [share feedback](/cas/Mailing-Lists.html).
- Better yet, [contribute patches](/cas/developer/Contributor-Guidelines.html).
- Suggest and apply documentation improvements.

## Resources

- [Release Schedule](https://github.com/apereo/cas/milestones)
- [Release Policy](/cas/developer/Release-Policy.html)

## System Requirements

The JDK baseline requirement for this CAS release is and **MUST** be JDK `21`. All compatible distributions
such as Amazon Corretto, Zulu, Eclipse Temurin, etc should work and are implicitly supported.

## New & Noteworthy

The following items are new improvements and enhancements presented in this release.

### OpenRewrite Recipes

CAS continues to produce and publish [OpenRewrite](https://docs.openrewrite.org/) recipes that allow the project to upgrade installations
in place from one version to the next. [See this guide](../installation/OpenRewrite-Upgrade-Recipes.html) to learn more.

### Graal VM Native Images

A CAS server installation and deployment process can be tuned to build and run
as a [Graal VM native image](../installation/GraalVM-NativeImage-Installation.html). We continue to polish native runtime hints.
The collection of end-to-end [browser tests based on Puppeteer](../../developer/Test-Process.html) have selectively switched
to build and verify Graal VM native images and we plan to extend the coverage to all such scenarios in the coming releases.

Note that Apache Log4j `2.25.0` now supports native images and is no longer a blocker.
Integration and functional tests are tuned to use Apache Log4j instead of Logback as the logging backend for CAS native images.
 
### OpenID Connect Native SSO

CAS now supports [OpenID Connect Native SSO](../authentication/OIDC-Authentication-NativeSSO-MobileApps.html).

### OpenID Connect AuthZEN

Basic support for [OpenID Connect AuthZEN](../authorization/Heimdall-Authorization-Overview.html) is now available.
 
### Gradle 9

CAS is now built with Gradle 9 and the build process has been updated to
use the latest Gradle features and capabilities. 

### Testing Strategy

The collection of end-to-end [browser tests based on Puppeteer](../../developer/Test-Process.html) continue to grow to cover more use cases
and scenarios. At the moment, total number of jobs stands at approximately `519` distinct scenarios. The overall
test coverage of the CAS codebase is approximately `94%`. Furthermore, a large number of test categories that group internal unit tests
are now configured to run with parallelism enabled.

## Other Stuff
  
- Support for *CSS Vars*, which provides CSS property/variable extraction for legacy browsers, is removed from the CAS.
- Support for *ES5-Shim*, which provides ECMAScript5 utilities for older legacy JavaScript engines is removed from CAS.
- Salt value used for generating persistent name IDs in particular for SAML2 responses or logout requests can be predefined.
- Jakarta Persistence libraries are moved out of the CAS web application by default.
- Extracting query parameters from the request URLs will check for URL validity and correctness.
- SAML2 logout requests generated by CAS account for transient `NameID` formats.
- A series of small improvements to ensure [Spring Session Management](../webflow/Webflow-Customization-Sessions.html) can work with [FIDO2 WebAuthN](../mfa/FIDO2-WebAuthn-Authentication.html).
- A number of improvements to multifactor authentication registration flows, particularly when attempted from the [user account profile](../registration/Account-Management-Overview.html).
- [Bootstrap libraries](../ux/User-Interface-Customization-ThemeCollections.html) are moved into their own module. 
- Support for detection of `localhost` URLs and parameter extraction from such URLs is now controlled via a dedicated configuration property, `cas.http-client.allow-local-urls`. If you have any applications that specify `localhost` as the host name in their URLs, you may need to set this property to `true` to allow CAS to recognize the application correctly.
- A series of improvements to the CAS user interface to streamline Thymeleaf constructs and remove duplicates. Thymeleaf templates via CAS themes allow for the inclusion of a special fragment that may be displayed to the left of the CAS login form as a side panel.
- When validating OAuth or OpenID Connect requests via `clientId` and `clientSecret`, the resolution of scopes will also consider the scopes attached to the provided `code`, if any.

