---
layout: default
title: CAS - Release Notes
category: Planning
---

# RC5 Release Notes

We strongly recommend that you take advantage of the release candidates as they come out. Waiting
for a `GA` release is only going to set you up for unpleasant surprises. A `GA`
is [a tag and nothing more](https://apereo.github.io/2017/03/08/the-myth-of-ga-rel/). Note that CAS
releases are *strictly* time-based releases; they are not scheduled or based on
specific benchmarks, statistics or completion of features. To gain confidence in
a particular release, we recommended that you start early by
experimenting with release candidates and/or follow-up snapshots.

## Apereo Membership

If you benefit from Apereo CAS as free and open-source software, we
invite you to [join the Apereo Foundation](https://www.apereo.org/content/apereo-membership)
and financially support the project at a capacity that best suits your
deployment. Note that all development activity is performed
*almost exclusively* on a voluntary basis with no expectations, commitments or strings
attached. Having the financial means to better sustain engineering activities will allow
the developer community to allocate *dedicated and committed* time for long-term
support, maintenance and release planning, especially when it comes to addressing
critical and security issues in a timely manner. Funding will ensure support for
the software you rely on and you gain an advantage and say in the way Apereo, and
the CAS project at that, runs and operates. If you consider your CAS deployment to
be a critical part of the identity and access management ecosystem, this is a viable option to consider.

## Get Involved

- Start your CAS deployment today. Try out features and [share feedback](/cas/Mailing-Lists.html).
- Better yet, [contribute patches](/cas/developer/Contributor-Guidelines.html).
- Suggest and apply documentation improvements.

## Resources

- [Release Schedule](https://github.com/apereo/cas/milestones)
- [Release Policy](/cas/developer/Release-Policy.html)

## Overlay

In the `gradle.properties` of the [CAS WAR Overlay](../installation/WAR-Overlay-Installation.html), 
adjust the following setting:

```properties
cas.version=6.5.0-RC5
```

<div class="alert alert-info">
<strong>System Requirements</strong><br/>There are no changes to the 
minimum system/platform requirements for this release.
</div>

## New & Noteworthy

The following items are new improvements and enhancements presented in this release.
 
### Spring Cloud Kubernetes

Support for [Spring Cloud Kubernetes](../configuration/Configuration-Server-Management-SpringCloud-Kubernetes.html), 
particularly when it comes to configuration management via `ConfigMap`
or `Secret` concepts in Kubernetes is now *baked* into CAS.

### Testing Strategy

The collection of end-to-end browser tests based on Puppeteer continue to grow
to add additional scenarios. At this point, there are
approximately `246` test scenarios and we'll continue to add more in the coming releases.
   
### OpenID Connect JMeter Script
   
A new [JMeter test script](../high_availability/Performance-Testing-JMeter.html) is now 
available to support running load tests for a CAS server acting as an OpenID Connect provider.
  
### Simple Multifactor Authentication w/ Rate Limiting
                            
CAS, acting as a [simple multifactor authentication provider](../mfa/Simple-Multifactor-Authentication.html),
is now able to support token request rate-limiting and throttling.

### OpenID Connect JSON Web Keystore

The JSON web keystore that is generated by CAS to handle crypto 
operations for [OpenID Connect](../authentication/OIDC-Authentication-JWKS.html) is now able to generate 
key pairs for signing and encryption via the `use` attribute in the generated JWKS. The presence of 
this attribute is optional and CAS, on a best-effort basis, may fall back to using keys without a specified `use` flag.

### CAS Initializer Configuration Metadata

The collection of reference configuration properties produced by the [CAS Initializr](../installation/WAR-Overlay-Initializr.html)
are now removed and the functionality is now moved to the produced overlay itself using dedicated Gradle tasks. This is done so
that the collection of properties, produced based on CAS configuration metadata, accurately reflect the CAS version used by
the overlay itself, and not one that is statically compiled and made available to the CAS Initializer itself. 
 
### ADFS Federation Metadata

The [CAS Integration with ADFS](../integration/ADFS-Integration.html) is now able to automatically determine the 
signing certificates from the federation metadata file as an option. Metadata must contain an `IDPSSODescriptor` element
with a key descriptor tagged for `signing`.
     
### Apache Syncope Attribute Resolution

CAS is now able to independently [fetch person attributes](../integration/Attribute-Resolution-Syncope.html) from Apache Syncope.

### Delegated Authentication Auto-Redirect

When [delegating authentication](../integration/Delegate-Authentication.html) to an external identity provider,
CAS can be configured to automatically redirect to the identity provider. This releases enhances the auto-redirect options to
handle the following types:

- `NONE`: No automatic redirects take place and user might have to manually choose.
- `CLIENT`: Automatic redirects are issued by the browser, and user might see a *Please wait...* message.
- `SERVER`: Automatic redirects are issued by the CAS server, effectively making CAS invisible to the user.

[CAS Integration with ADFS](../integration/ADFS-Integration.html) has also received the same capability.

## Other Stuff
   
- Proper handling of recycled tokens for [Simple MFA](../mfa/Simple-Multifactor-Authentication.html), when used in combination with the [JPA ticket registry](../ticketing/JPA-Ticket-Registry.html) to avoid errors related to duplicate entries. 
- Minor build improvements to ensure the CAS Gradle build can work correctly with the Gradle configuration cache.
- Validation of configuration properties is now moved into a proper `ApplicationContextInitializer` component.
- Minor UI improvements to ensure required fields as well as CAPSLOCK warnings are displayed as helper messages for input fields.
- The construction of the `SameSite` cookie flag can now be controlled using a Java class that implements `CookieSameSitePolicy`.
- Improvements to the construction of SAML2 authentication requests sent to [an external identity provider](../integration/Delegate-Authentication-SAML.html), when CAS itself is acting as a SAML2 identity provider.
- [Configuration discovery](../configuration/Configuration-Discovery.html) endpoint is able to output a list of supported ticket types.

## Library Upgrades

- Nimbus SDK
- MongoDb Driver
- Twilio
- Amazon SDK
- SpotBugs
- Micrometer
- DuoSecurity Client
- HikariCP
- Hibernate
- Spring Framework
- Spring Boot
- Apache Ignite
- Pac4j
- Spring Data
- Gradle
- Apache Tomcat
- Person Directory
- Spring Integration
- Google Maps
- Hibernate
- MariaDb Driver
- InfluxDb
- Oshi
- Mockito
